+++
author = "Jinn Zhong"
title = "Osmosis #100: A Retrospective (Excerpt)"
date = "2023-03-15"
description = "Why Am I Doing This?"
tags = [
    "Craft of Writing",
    "Creative Process",
    "Bob Grant",
]
categories = [
    "Chasing Black Swans",
]
+++
_The following originally appeared in a newsletter I wrote. As it relates to the work I've done to become a fiction writer, and this particular piece is significant to that process, I am including it here._

-------
I've wanted to be a fiction author since I was five, but aside from a genuine all-out push in 2007, 2015, and 2017... I have not worked on fiction like I would a proper craft with consistency.

At this point, it's a "dream". In other words, something I want but haven't worked through all the uncomfortable anxiety that's required of an art where uncertainty abounds.

As long as a "dream" stays in your head, it is an unsullied "perfect fantasy" (which we talked about in O.W. #0070). It is one of the main reasons why people don't take action and pursue their dreams.

One of my favorite clients and Osmosis reader, Bob Grant, has a habit of reminding me I shouldn't give up this dream. And in rare moments of quiet when I'm not busying myself with projects, distractions, and deadlines... (or in the last few months, even during such busy-ness)... I find myself asking the existential question, at age 42 (with half my life behind me)... why I'm not pursuing this "dream" and turning it into concrete reality.

ex-Plural partner Kayti texted me the other day saying she was reading Four Thousand Weeks (2021) because of me. (An amazing book we covered in O.W. #0070, #0071, #0072, #0073, and #0074)... and it reminded me to review my notes again.

I went to a cafe, ordered a latte (coffee being something I haven't drank in over a decade), and sat down with my reMarkable to journal through this recurring existential crisis.

And after that, I reached out to my old fiction writing group. One of them, an Osmosis reader, under a pen name is now a relatively successful self-published author who also ghostwrites and is an editor of a indie fiction magazine.

I am [resurrecting my support/accountability fiction group](https://journal.jinnzhong.com/resurrect-gfp/). We talked on Saturday morning, [set goals](https://journal.jinnzhong.com/an-honest-reflection-post-gfp/), and made commitments. And the very next day, I woke up early on Sunday, drove to Starbucks, and started [working on my goals](https://journal.jinnzhong.com/what-i-want-as-an-author/).

Did it have to be the next day? Did I have to drive out of my way somewhere else when I had a perfectly good home office? Did I have to wake up early on Sunday? And why the fuck am I drinking coffee after not doing it in over a decade?

The answer is "no" to the first three questions, and "I don't know" to the last. But I did it. And I also recognize that these actions are a necessary self-placebo. It's signaling to yourself that "this is different and important", therefore, you must go "out of your way" to make this unique and special.

This concept of "self-signaling" (or basically lying to, or tricking, yourself) is something we covered in O.W. #0053.

It's one of my favorite issues because you realize that all self-help is basically lying to yourself in order to get yourself to take action. And even if you know that, it still doesn't stop you from doing it. We are irrational creatures and we need to do "irrational self-signaling" in order to do things that's outside our routine.

If anything, at least I didn't buy a new notebook, writing software, or piece of hardware to "self-signal". (I mean, arguably, I have all of them at this point: Scrivener, Final Draft, AlphaSmart Neo, reMarkable, a Sailor fountain pen, Muji notebooks, Moleskin planners...)
