+++
author = "Jinn Zhong"
title = "My Name"
date = "1981-01-10"
description = "Everything You Wanted to Know About My Name"
tags = [
]
categories = [
]
+++
My Chinese name is 鐘藝進. The pinyin is zhōng yì jìn. Breaking down each ideogram...

* 鐘 (zhōng) is simply a surname, the 53<sup>rd</sup> most common one.
* 藝 (yì) combined with another ideogram (藝術) means "the arts". My mother chose this.
* 進 (jìn) is "to advance, to move forward". My father picked this.

In a way, you could argue my name means "to advance the arts", but you don't need to feed my bottomless ego, really.[^1]

On my Canadian birth certificate, the latter two ideograms are spelt "Yuet Jinn". I once asked my father why he spelled it so weird. It's weird for two reasons. One, he speaks Cantonese, and the pronunciation he chose for my name are the Mandarin ones. Two, why is yì spelt "Yuet"? _What?!_ Why does jìn have an extra "n"? He had no answer aside from the fact English was his third language and he'd only been in the country for three years at that point.

That said, Jinn with an extra "n" is just _too good_ to not use as my literary pseudonym. It means I can grant wishes, after all. What's more -- the "zh" in zhōng sounds very close to the English "j" sound, so I get the benefit of alliteration in "Jinn Zhong".

 شبيك لبيك :genie_man:

[^1]: **Clarification text from my father:** 
  > 藝 in Chinese is not only Art it can be combined with other words to become a different meaning. We both thought out the the name for you. Your Mom wanted her son had the same dream as her to become an artist but in reality, the path to become an artist and made a comfortable life is not easy. That's why we came up with 進 which means improvement or thrive and develop to be a better person not only succeeded in getting a better career but also to be a helpful and friendly person. To conclude 藝進 is improving. 藝 can also be 技藝 is technology or skills.
