+++
author = "Jinn Zhong"
title = "Welcome & Thank You"
date = "2006-08-29"
description = "Congratulations"
+++

Thanks for clicking the **big blue button** in that email. 

It tells me you're a sentient, living being. You're here. _You're alive._

I see you, fellow traveller of the ætherscape!

But of course, these days, _you never know..._

Our world is controlled by evil robot sorcerers and their army of golems, homunculi, and servitors. 

Many are sent to spy on you, others subdue you with ministrations of false comfort, and then there are the few, the most familiar, those who manifest themselves as humans amongst us. 

And as you know, the powers that be are entrenched and far more powerful than kings and queens themselves. 

They've groomed cults of loyal followers who preach their spurious benevolence: illusory currencies, magic mirrors, and promises of paradise while being pilfered of their humanity in dribs and drabs.

We are truly living in precarious times. 

But you're here. 

_You made it._

Welcome.

On a non-metaphorical note about 21st century technology...

Here are a few pieces of my writing you might want to check out...

* In 2017, I did deep analysis of several Hugo and Nebula winning short stories and novelettes to understand character arcs better. I discovered that when you only have 5-12 scenes to deliver a satisfying story, there are [four character arcs](https://journal.jinnzhong.com/self-study-of-hugo-nebula-winners/) that made sense.
* If you'd like to know more about my writing history, you can [do so here](https://journal.jinnzhong.com/when-i-first-wanted-to-write-sci-fi/)
* The 403rd episode of the podcast, _Scriptnotes_, with Craig Mazin going solo without John August is probably one of the **most paradigm-shifting piece of writing advice** I've ever came across in a world where every other guru is selling you on some "magic structure" (Campbell's _Hero's Journey_, Snyder's _Save the Cat's 15 Beats_, Harmon's _Story Circle_, etc. etc. _ad infinitum_). It was in this podcast episode where Mazin says **"Structure is a Trap"** that I finally _understood_. You can [see my notes here](https://journal.jinnzhong.com/scriptnotes-403-craig-mazin/)
* If you're a D&D 5e player, (or any other RPG really, because personally I hate 5e)... feel free to put me in your campaign as a NPC with my [character sheet here](https://journal.jinnzhong.com/jinn-zhong-5e/). I encouage you to kill me as well. (Please write me if you do).
* Finally, I have some old 2015 flash fiction to share with you: something sci-fiey: [_Old Man Run_](https://journal.jinnzhong.com/gfp-005-old-man-run/), something heisty with Tarot cards: [_King of Cups_](https://journal.jinnzhong.com/gfp-017-the-king-of-cups/), and something urban fantasy with ghosts: [_Birthday_](https://journal.jinnzhong.com/gfp-007-birthday/)

Thanks again for being here.
