+++
author = "Jinn Zhong"
title = "D&D Problems"
date = "2018-06-27"
description = "Problems"
tags = [
    "RPG",
    "Creative Process",
]
+++

_Unknown Source: Can't find if this was from a reddit post, an OSR blog, or what. But I didn't write this._

## Physical Setbacks
* Mountain Pass blocked by avalanche
* Harbor with no ships willing to sail to where PCs need to go
* Bridge washed out by rain or destroyed
* Door turns out to be locked, barred, blocked, magically sealed, cursed
* Use only if you gave them warning, as in it could’ve been avoided because these setbacks aren’t very dramatic. These setbacks should show the PC’s procrastination, fear of moving forward, avoidance, or sheer ignorance.

## Mundane Problems
* Rotten supplies
* Mutinying sailors
* Horses that refuse to enter a grove or sacred place
* The only guide who knows area X was lured to his doom by will-o-wisps.
* Same principles apply here. These problems should occur in a “no one to blame but themselves” way. Bad luck is melodrama. Comeuppance shows poor character decision making.

## Unbeatable Foes
* These gives the PCs three choices: recklessly charge in, turn back and look for another way… or they can retreat and look for a way to shift the odds in their favor.
* The third option forces PCs to be resourceful. They need to prepare the right spells, or go on a side quest to discover its weakness. This obstacles forces PCs to run, lay low and figure things out.

## Arriving Too Late
* Set a countdown for the players with clear goals and stakes… then throw needless distractions at them. Will the PCs stop to help an innocent bystander, or pick a treasure chest, or fight goblins?
* This puts the PCs in a time-crunch where they have to evaluate their morals and values.

## Pyrrhic Victory
* A fight that was so hard-fought that the PCS are drained and broken. Was it worth it? (Setting unbeatable foes with great treasure… but doesn’t drive the plot forward).

## Partial Salvation
* You get the McGuffin and you think you’ve solved the problems… but you’ve only created new problems.
* The magical weapon turns out to be broken (or only has 3 shots left)
* The new king you set on the throne turns out to be a worst tyrant than the guy you dethroned.
* The great mentor or guru you sought after turns out to be a phony and scam.
* Don’t break promises. Don’t tell players that getting X will solve all their problems. Lay down clues and hints that it’s not the silver bullet, in fact there are flaws. 

## A Severe Beating
* Villain feels like the PCs are getting too close. Villain feels threatened. Villain sends a “back off or pay the price” ultimatum.
PCs have to decide to keep going or risk the ultimatum.

## Ally Captured or Killed
* A more dire twist on “severe beating”. NPC needs to be crucial to the plot. Can be McGuffin that’s required for endgame.

## Betrayal
* Yet another twist on “severe beating”. The villain’s well placed traitor reveals themselves. Worse, NPC traitor knows everything about the PCs: strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats.

## B/W Rock & Hard Place
* PCs have to decide between achieving one goal over another and must prioritize even though both are costly.

## Villain Mastermind
* BBEG isn’t stupid. He might have demons, oracles or a supercomputer advising him. He has spent time thinking up counterstrategies for each and every avenue of attack. PCs need to plan around them.

## Situation Worse Than Anyone Knew
* Every major plot point the PCs foil only reveal a deeper, darker, more insidious plot underneath. Must cause shock and severe setback

## Patron Gets Cold Feet
* The guy funding this adventure (the king, the merchant, the Johnson)… the cost is getting too high for him. The Patron decided it’s better to pay up, run away, surrender, or just not fight anymore. Cancels the contract.
The PCs have to decide if this quest is still worth pushing forward on. 
