+++
author = "Jinn Zhong"
title = "THB-031: Semplica"
date = "2024-05-11"
description = "Thumbnail Sketch of The Semplica Girls Diaries"
tags = [
    "Story Analysis",
    "Craft of Writing",
    "Creative Process",
    "Thumbnail Sketches",
    "THB",
    "The Semplica Girls Diaries",
    "George Saunders",
    "Tenth of December (2013)",
]
categories = [
    "Story Dissection",
    "Craft of Storytelling",
]
+++
**Based on**: _The Semplica Girls Diaries_ by George Saunders - source: _Tenth of December_ (2013)

1. POV or POV's relation (child/spouse) has brush with someone far better off than them at a party, event, or ritual. POV feels bad they can't provide same lifestyle. (The party/event/ritual has a decorative MECH that's fantastic/horrifying/absurd).
2. A series of unfortunate events/situations that dramatize how poor/desperate the POV is, showing their thought process, and how they want to give more to their family, but can't.
3. POV comes into a chunk of cash by luck (lottery, inheritance, bonus). Doesn't do anything fiscally responsible (because boring), and blows it on the MECH the richer folk had. Not knowing the consequences.
4. POV gets delusions of grandeur. Feels great. We also get the truth of the MECH.
5. MECH breaks, runs away, or gets lost. They escaped with the help of the child/spouse who grew principles when they found out the truth behind the MECH. POV is in serious debt/troub.e. Tries to cover it up.

All THBs can be found [here](https://journal.jinnzhong.com/tags/thb/)
