+++
author = "Jinn Zhong"
title = "36 Questy Middles"
date = "2024-02-15"
description = "36 Questy Middles"
tags = [
    "Craft of Writing",
    "Story Analysis",
    "Creative Process",
    "MICE Quotient",
    "Plot Beat Patterns",
]
categories = [
    "Craft of Storytelling",
]
+++
I guess this is part three of my [plot beat patterns](https://journal.jinnzhong.com/plot-beat-patterns/) analysis in a way. After creating a [d20 list of Disruptions](https://journal.jinnzhong.com/d20-of-plot-patterns/)(aka inciting incidents / DSRs), I started thinking more about the "middles". Middles is where after the DSR, the PROT has to actually _do something_, the "quest" so to speak. The DSR upsets the STS, which forces the PROT to react with a "quest" in the most broadest of terms. You could just call it a job, task, assignment too I suppose. The doing of this quest is the PROT's attempt to solve the problem caused by the DSR.

## Milieu
* Go **get** something  (steal/fetch/ask/buy/win/invent)
* Go **ask** (persuade/beg/seduce/intimidate/negotiate) someone for something
* Go **rescue** someone (save/extract/free)
* Go **deliver** (or get rid of) something/someone to a place
* **Escape** from a place
* Explore and **adapt to** (or get burnt by) **new place**
* Explore and **climb ladder** of **new place**
* Go to **new place(s)** to **avoid** or b/c of life stage
* Flee or **run away** from ANTG chasing/hunting you

## Inquiry
* Figure out **how to save** ally’s life
* Figure out the **new stranger** in town
* Figure out what **new gift/job** does
* Figure out **why we do X** (ritual, rite, routine)
* Figure out all the **hidden costs** of a deal
* Figure out how to **find X** (person, place, thing)
* Figure out who committed the **crime** (what really happened)

## Character
_Usually combined with an external (M/I/E) plot. Otherwise, pure navel gazing story._
* Have a **crisis of faith**
* Get **sucked into spiral** of temptation, excess, addiction, power, etc.
* Learn **the game/rules** and climb ladder
* Get burnt by **the game/rules** and leave after loss
* Learn to **let go** or **accept**
* Realize **what could've been** (nostalgia/reminisce)
* **Understand the stranger**
* Seek **forgiveness** for crime done
* **Drop the Act** or **Put on Mask** to get something done
* Build up enough courage for **sacrifice** (of past life or literally)
  
## Event
* Seek **vengeance** for wrongs
* Go **challenge** or **destroy** something/someone (solo/team/rebellion)
* Have **contest** with rival to prove superiority (achieve/win/compete)
* **Train/haze** new guy and eventually accept/deny them
* **Reveal secrets** to hurt each other
* **Use new gift/job** for good or evil
* **Fuck around and find out** with new gift, job, new place
* **Resist** (or face persecution for) new life stage
* Prepare **defense** for incoming ANTG
* **Confront**, **blackmail**, or **expose** secret
