+++
author = "Jinn Zhong"
title = "THB-036: Mars Lady"
date = "2024-05-11"
description = "Thumbnail Sketch of The Lady Astronaut of Mars"
tags = [
    "Story Analysis",
    "Craft of Writing",
    "Creative Process",
    "Thumbnail Sketches",
    "THB",
    "The Lady Astronaut of Mars",
    "Mary Robinette Kowal",
]
categories = [
    "Story Dissection",
    "Craft of Storytelling",
]
+++
**Based on**: _The Lady Astronaut of Mars_ by Mary Robintette Kowal - [source](https://maryrobinettekowal.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/ladyastronaut.pdf)

1. POV was a hero/star, now old/forgotten. A fan (now grown up) crosses POV's life... doing a professional service (doctor, lawyer, contractor, etc.). Relates story to POV, reminding POV of a tragic event.
2. POV goes home to dying, sick loved one (the reason why they can't go on "one last job" despite wanting to). Reflect on past, gets call to meet.
3. The diner, cafe, or museum is a place that honors POV and their achievement. POV is unamused. POV is offered "one last job". POV turns it down. Loved one finds out about it later and gets angry POV is sticking around for them.
4. The job-offerer reveals a jucier reason why the POV should take this "one last job". POV reconsiders a bit, reluctantly. Later that night, loved one's sickness is dramatized in a way that reminds POV they need to stay.
5. Loved one (who was POV's partner during the tragic event). REVEAL: the first person to recognize POV was at the tragic event. REVEAL: Loved one gets "one last job" that secretly helps POV on their "one last job". They say goodbye, and both do the "one last job" together.

All THBs can be found [here](https://journal.jinnzhong.com/tags/thb/)
